PROTON SRE IN GENEVA - BEGINNER GUIDE
=====================================

Checked: 19 September 2026 (Europe/Zurich)
Audience: a computer-science graduate who is new to DevOps and SRE
Purpose: understand the basic ideas, then connect them to Proton's Geneva SRE roles

READ THIS FIRST
---------------

This is a learning guide, not a statement that you are already qualified for a Proton
SRE position. Proton's official Infrastructure Systems description asks for Kubernetes,
VM orchestration, bare-metal provisioning, Linux internals and networking, Python,
Terraform/Ansible/Puppet, highly available distributed architecture, Prometheus/Grafana
and infrastructure security. It describes a global production environment, on-call
work and a 99.95%+ uptime objective. Those are employer requirements and context, not
skills created by reading this file.

Your current public lab demonstrates a much smaller local system: C++ device simulator,
Python/FastAPI control plane, Docker Compose, Prometheus, Grafana, GitHub Actions and a
controlled fault/recovery drill. It does not yet prove production Kubernetes, VMware,
bare-metal fleet work, Proton internal systems, on-call experience or Swiss work
authorization.

The correct goal is:

    understand the vocabulary -> operate a small service -> practise safely ->
    obtain supervised Linux/Kubernetes evidence -> apply truthfully

TABLE OF CONTENTS
-----------------

1. What SRE means
2. DevOps, DevSecOps and platform engineering
3. The service model
4. Reliability vocabulary
5. Observability
6. Incidents and operations
7. Linux and networking foundations
8. Containers and Docker
9. Kubernetes from zero
10. Virtual machines and VMware
11. Infrastructure as Code and configuration management
12. CI/CD and GitOps
13. Security in the delivery cycle
14. Proton Geneva: what the role actually involves
15. The current lab mapped to Proton
16. A sensible six-week learning plan
17. What can become paid work
18. Beginner exercises with answers
19. First session checklist
20. Sources and validity boundaries


1. WHAT SRE MEANS
------------------

SRE stands for Site Reliability Engineering. It is a way of applying software
engineering to the operation of services.

An SRE does not only ask, "Does the code run?" An SRE also asks:

- Can the user complete the important action?
- How often does the service fail?
- How quickly can we detect and recover from failure?
- What evidence tells us what happened?
- Which repeated manual task should become safe automation?
- How much change can the service accept before reliability risk is too high?

SRE has three connected parts:

1. Service design: make failure visible, bounded and recoverable.
2. Service operation: measure, alert, diagnose and restore.
3. Service improvement: automate toil, test changes and learn from incidents.

SRE is not a synonym for:

- system administration alone;
- writing a Dockerfile alone;
- installing Kubernetes;
- monitoring without responding;
- promising 100% uptime;
- calling a six-week project production experience.

Simple example:

    A web API depends on a database.
    The database becomes unavailable.
    Liveness may still be healthy because the API process is running.
    Readiness should fail because the API cannot perform its useful work.
    Monitoring detects the change.
    The runbook explains what to inspect.
    The operator restores the dependency and verifies a new successful request.

That sequence is SRE thinking.


2. DEVOPS, DEVSECOPS AND PLATFORM ENGINEERING
-----------------------------------------------

DevOps is a working culture and set of practices that reduce the gap between building
software and operating it. It encourages shared ownership, automation, small changes,
feedback and repeatable delivery.

DevSecOps means security is included in the same delivery cycle instead of being left
until the end. Examples:

- dependencies are checked before release;
- container images are scanned and kept minimal;
- secrets are not committed to Git;
- services use least-privilege identities;
- access and network paths are restricted;
- logs and alerts help detect abuse and faults;
- recovery and patching are tested.

Platform engineering creates reusable internal paths for developers and operators.
Instead of every team inventing deployment, identity, logging and alerting, a platform
team provides a safer standard path.

The distinction is useful:

- DevOps: how development and operations work together.
- DevSecOps: how security controls are embedded in that workflow.
- SRE: how reliability is defined, measured and improved.
- Platform engineering: how reusable infrastructure paths are provided.

One project can demonstrate all four, but a project title does not prove seniority.


3. THE SERVICE MODEL
--------------------

A service is a system that provides a useful function to a user or another service.

Important components:

- Client: the caller, browser, job or service sending a request.
- API: the agreed interface for requests and responses.
- Process: a running program.
- Host: a computer or virtual machine running programs.
- Dependency: another component needed for useful work.
- State: information that must persist or be coordinated.
- Network path: the route and protocols between components.
- Deployment: the version and configuration running in an environment.
- Environment: a boundary such as development, test, staging or production.

Think in boundaries. For a Proton-style service, the path might contain:

    user traffic -> DNS -> load balancer/proxy -> application -> data store
                                  |
                                  +-> metrics/logs/alerts

Every arrow can fail. An SRE makes the failure detectable and the recovery decision
understandable.

The four questions for every component are:

1. What does it do?
2. What does it depend on?
3. How do we know it is healthy?
4. What is the safe recovery action?


4. RELIABILITY VOCABULARY
-------------------------

Availability: the proportion of intended service that is usable. A request-based
example is successful requests divided by total valid requests in a stated window.

Reliability: the probability that a service performs its intended function for a
stated period and conditions. Availability is one observable part of reliability.

Latency: the time taken to complete an operation. Always state a percentile or other
summary and the measured operation; "fast" is not a metric.

Throughput: work completed per unit of time, such as requests per second.

Scalability: how capacity and performance change as demand or resources change.

Durability: how well data survives failures. Durability is not the same as availability.

Resilience: the ability to continue or recover when components fail.

Fault: a condition that can cause incorrect or degraded behaviour.

Failure: the service does not perform the intended function.

Degradation: the service still works but with reduced quality, capacity or speed.

SLI (Service Level Indicator): a measurement of a user-relevant outcome.

    Example SLI: successful checkout requests / all valid checkout requests.

SLO (Service Level Objective): the target for an SLI over a defined window.

    Example SLO: at least 99.9% of valid checkout requests succeed over 30 days.

SLA (Service Level Agreement): an external promise, usually with consequences. A
training lab has no SLA unless a real contract says so.

Error budget: the permitted unreliability under an SLO. A 99% SLO permits 1% of the
chosen measurement to fail. The budget is not permission to harm users; it is a way to
balance feature change and reliability risk.

Do not write "99% reliable" without naming the indicator, target and window.


5. OBSERVABILITY
----------------

Observability is the ability to understand internal system state from the information
the system produces. The main signals are:

Metrics: numeric measurements over time. Examples are request count, error count,
queue depth, CPU use and request duration.

Logs: timestamped records of events. A useful log says what happened, where, with a
correlation ID when appropriate, while avoiding secrets and unnecessary personal data.

Traces: a request's path across services, usually represented as spans with timing.

Monitoring: collecting and examining signals.

Alerting: notifying an operator when a condition needs action. An alert should have a
meaning, owner, urgency and runbook; noisy alerts create toil.

Prometheus: a metrics collection and query system commonly used to scrape endpoints.

Grafana: a dashboard and visualization tool that can query Prometheus and other data.

Alertmanager: a Prometheus companion that groups, routes and suppresses alerts.

ELK: Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana, a common log-search and visualization stack.
Kibana is the user interface; do not treat it as a replacement for metrics or a
runbook.

Golden signals: latency, traffic, errors and saturation. They are a starting point,
not a complete observability design.

Good telemetry answers:

1. Is the user-visible function working?
2. What changed?
3. Which dependency or layer is failing?
4. What is the impact and how long has it lasted?

Avoid high-cardinality labels such as unrestricted user IDs. They can make a metrics
system expensive and unstable.


6. INCIDENTS AND OPERATIONS
---------------------------

Incident: an unplanned event that reduces or threatens a service's expected function.

Outage: a broad or complete loss of a service.

On-call: a defined person or team responsible for responding during a period. On-call
requires escalation, access, documentation and a healthy handover; it is not merely
having a phone nearby.

Runbook: step-by-step instructions for a known operational task or failure.

Playbook: a broader response plan with decision branches for a class of incidents.

Root cause: an underlying condition whose removal would prevent the same failure, not
just the first symptom seen.

RCA (root-cause analysis): the evidence-based investigation of why an incident occurred.

Postmortem: a written record of impact, timeline, detection, response, cause,
contributing factors and prevention actions. A good postmortem is blameless but not
responsibility-free.

Safe incident order:

1. Detect and state the user impact.
2. Declare an incident and assign an owner.
3. Preserve evidence and avoid unrelated changes.
4. Contain the impact if possible.
5. Diagnose from the lowest failing layer upward.
6. Recover with the smallest safe action.
7. Verify a fresh user-relevant success.
8. Record what should change next.

Toil: manual, repetitive, automatable work that scales with service size and provides
little lasting value. Automate only when the behaviour is understood and the automation
fails safely.

Idempotence: repeating the same desired-state operation produces the same result. It is
one reason configuration and deployment automation can be trusted.


7. LINUX AND NETWORKING FOUNDATIONS
------------------------------------

Linux is the operating-system foundation for much of modern infrastructure.

Kernel: the privileged core that manages CPU, memory, devices, processes and system
calls.

Process: a running program with an identity and resources.

File descriptor: a process handle for a file, socket or other I/O resource.

Permission: the rule controlling who may read, write or execute a resource.

systemd: a common Linux service manager. A unit describes how a service starts, stops,
restarts and logs.

Namespace: a Linux isolation mechanism that gives a process a restricted view of
resources such as processes, mounts or networking.

cgroup: a Linux control group used to limit and account for resource use.

TCP: a connection-oriented transport protocol that provides ordered delivery.

IP: the addressing and routing layer for packets.

DNS: translates names such as api.example into addresses or other records.

HTTP/HTTPS: application protocols used for web requests; HTTPS adds TLS encryption and
authentication of the server when correctly configured.

Port: a numbered endpoint used by a host and protocol. A listening port is not proof
that the application is healthy.

Route: a rule deciding where packets go next.

Firewall: a control that allows or blocks traffic according to policy.

Useful authorized-lab checks:

    hostnamectl
    ip address
    ip route
    ss -lntp
    systemctl status SERVICE
    journalctl -u SERVICE --since '10 minutes ago'
    curl -i http://127.0.0.1:PORT/healthz

Layered diagnosis:

1. Power/process: is the host and process running?
2. Interface/address: does the host have the expected address?
3. Route/firewall: can traffic reach the destination?
4. TCP: is the port accepting a connection?
5. TLS/HTTP: does the protocol negotiate and respond?
6. Application/dependency: can the useful operation succeed?

Do not scan or capture traffic on a network unless the owner explicitly authorizes it.


8. CONTAINERS AND DOCKER
------------------------

Image: an immutable package containing an application and its runtime filesystem.

Container: a process started from an image with isolation and resource controls. It is
not a miniature VM and does not contain a separate kernel.

Registry: a service that stores and distributes images.

Dockerfile: instructions for building an image.

Docker Compose: a way to describe and run several related containers for development
or a small lab.

Important Docker practices:

- use a small trusted base image;
- pin or review versions;
- run as a non-root user where possible;
- do not put secrets in the image;
- expose only required ports;
- add health checks;
- make logs go to a standard output path;
- rebuild and scan after dependency changes;
- keep the image reproducible.

What Docker does not solve automatically:

- identity and authorization;
- data backup;
- network policy;
- image vulnerabilities;
- noisy logs;
- application correctness;
- production incident response.


9. KUBERNETES FROM ZERO
-----------------------

Kubernetes is a control system for running containerized workloads. You declare a
desired state and controllers work to make the actual state match it.

Cluster: the Kubernetes control plane plus worker resources.

Node: a machine or VM that runs workloads.

Pod: the smallest deployable unit; usually one main container, sometimes tightly
coupled sidecars.

Deployment: declares how many versions of a stateless Pod should run and manages
rollouts and replacement.

Service: gives a stable network identity to a set of Pods.

Ingress: a rule for routing external HTTP(S) traffic to Services. Many installations
use an ingress controller or a gateway.

ConfigMap: non-secret configuration.

Secret: sensitive configuration, but not automatically safe; access and storage still
need protection.

Namespace: a logical boundary for names, policy and access.

Readiness probe: asks whether a Pod should receive traffic.

Liveness probe: asks whether a process is alive enough to keep running.

Startup probe: gives a slow-starting application time to initialize before liveness
checks become strict.

Resource request: amount used for scheduling.

Resource limit: maximum allowed resource use under the configured policy.

RBAC: role-based access control for Kubernetes API permissions.

NetworkPolicy: rules controlling Pod-to-Pod traffic when the network implementation
supports them.

Helm: a packaging and templating tool for Kubernetes manifests.

GitOps: Git is the reviewed desired-state source; an agent reconciles that state into
the environment. ArgoCD is a common GitOps controller.

Safe beginner sequence:

1. Deploy one non-production container.
2. Add readiness and liveness probes.
3. Add resource requests and limits.
4. Restrict the namespace and service account.
5. Add a rollback path.
6. Observe the deployment and deliberately cause a safe failure.

Do not claim Kubernetes production experience from reading a manifest or running a
single local cluster.


10. VIRTUAL MACHINES AND VMWARE
------------------------------

Virtual machine (VM): a software-defined computer with virtual CPU, memory, storage
and network devices.

Hypervisor: software that creates and runs VMs.

VMware and Hyper-V are hypervisor/platform families. QEMU/KVM is a common Linux-based
virtualization path. OpenStack is a cloud-control platform that can use virtualization
and other resources.

VM versus container:

- VM: stronger machine boundary, own guest kernel, slower/heavier startup.
- Container: process isolation, shared host kernel, faster/lighter startup.

SRE questions for a VM:

- What host owns it?
- What CPU, memory and storage limits apply?
- How is it patched and backed up?
- What happens when the host fails?
- Which network segments can it reach?
- Who can administer it?

On Apple silicon, the centre must confirm the supported VM architecture and whether
nested virtualization is allowed. Do not promise that a particular VMware product can
run the centre's preferred Kubernetes setup until the centre tests it.


11. INFRASTRUCTURE AS CODE AND CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT
--------------------------------------------------------

Infrastructure as Code (IaC): version-controlled declarations describing infrastructure
resources such as networks, VMs, storage or managed services.

Terraform/OpenTofu: declarative IaC tools that calculate a plan and apply changes using
providers.

Configuration management: ensuring machines have the intended packages, files, users
and services.

Ansible: agentless automation commonly using YAML playbooks and SSH or other connection
methods.

Puppet/OpenVox: configuration-management systems that enforce declared state through
agents or compatible workflows.

Plan: a preview of intended infrastructure changes.

Apply: execution of the planned change.

State: the record a tool uses to compare desired and actual resources. Protect it like
infrastructure information; it can contain sensitive values.

Drift: actual infrastructure differs from the declared state.

Idempotent configuration can be run again without creating uncontrolled duplication.

Beginner rule: practise only on disposable resources. Review the plan. Never paste
private keys, cloud credentials or real production state into a public repository.


12. CI/CD AND GITOPS
--------------------

Continuous Integration (CI): every reviewed change is built and tested automatically.

Continuous Delivery: changes are kept in a releasable state and can be deployed using
a controlled process.

Continuous Deployment: a policy where changes passing required gates are deployed
automatically.

Pipeline: the ordered jobs that build, test, scan, package and release software.

Git: distributed version control. A commit is a recorded change; a pull request is a
review and discussion boundary.

GitLab CI, GitHub Actions and Jenkins are CI/CD systems. They differ in syntax and
integration, but the safety questions are the same:

- What triggers the pipeline?
- Which tests and scans are mandatory?
- Where are artifacts stored?
- Who may approve deployment?
- How is a failed release rolled back?

GitOps adds a reconciliation agent such as ArgoCD. The Git repository is not magically
secure; branch protection, secret handling, review and least privilege still matter.


13. SECURITY IN THE DELIVERY CYCLE
-----------------------------------

Threat model: a structured description of assets, trust boundaries, attackers,
abuse paths and mitigations.

Least privilege: each person, process and service gets only the permissions needed.

IAM: identity and access management.

RBAC: permissions expressed through roles instead of ad hoc broad access.

SAST: static application security testing of source or code patterns.

DAST: dynamic testing against a running application in an authorized environment.

Dependency scanning: checks third-party components for known risks and licenses.

Image scanning: checks a container image and its packages for known vulnerabilities.

SBOM: software bill of materials, a machine-readable inventory of included components.

Secret scanning: detects likely passwords, tokens or keys before publication or use.

Supply-chain security: verifying where dependencies and build artifacts came from and
whether they were altered.

Encryption in transit: protects data while moving, usually with TLS.

Encryption at rest: protects stored data, but does not replace access control or
backup/recovery design.

DevSecOps gate example:

    source review -> tests -> dependency scan -> image build -> image scan/SBOM ->
    policy check -> approved non-production deploy -> observability -> release decision

Fail closed means a missing security check blocks the path or creates an explicit,
reviewed exception. It does not mean pretending the check passed.


14. PROTON GENEVA: WHAT THE ROLE ACTUALLY INVOLVES
---------------------------------------------------

Proton's official Infrastructure Systems role is listed for Geneva and Paris. The
team provides base platforms including Kubernetes, VM orchestration and bare-metal
provisioning, plus critical services such as DNS, DHCP, source of truth and monitoring.

The role description says the team operates a rapidly expanding global network of
thousands of servers and designs automation for 99.95%+ infrastructure uptime. It
includes on-call troubleshooting across network environments, monitoring/alerting and
engineering for connectivity, stability, performance, scalability, security and
resilience.

The requested technical foundations are:

- Linux internals, networking stack and kernel tuning;
- Kubernetes and infrastructure automation;
- Terraform, Ansible, Puppet or similar tools;
- Python for operational automation;
- highly available and distributed-system architecture;
- Prometheus and Grafana;
- infrastructure security;
- bonus: bare metal, on-premise cloud and open source.

Proton's Application Edge role is a different but related SRE path. It focuses on
user-facing production traffic across on-premises and cloud environments, networking,
DNS, HTTP/HTTPS, high-performance load balancing such as HAProxy/Envoy/Traefik,
Kubernetes, Python/Rust/Go, failure recovery and security. It also mentions rate
limiting and DDoS mitigation as bonus areas.

What a Proton SRE does in plain language:

1. Makes infrastructure changes repeatable rather than clicking through servers.
2. Keeps services available while hardware, networks and dependencies fail.
3. Creates useful monitoring and alerts instead of dashboards no one trusts.
4. Investigates incidents across application, network, OS and hardware layers.
5. Improves security without making recovery impossible.
6. Documents decisions so another engineer can operate the system.

This is serious production responsibility. A beginner project can show learning ability
and disciplined habits, but it cannot substitute for production experience.


15. THE CURRENT LAB MAPPED TO PROTON
-------------------------------------

Current evidence:

- C++ simulator: a hardware-like TCP endpoint and controlled fault state.
- Python/FastAPI: polling, validation, REST endpoints and metrics.
- Docker Compose: repeatable local multi-service deployment.
- Prometheus/Grafana: metrics and dashboard evidence.
- GitHub Actions: automated C++ build and Python tests.
- Recovery drill: inject a failure, observe readiness, recover and verify a fresh sample.

What it teaches that transfers:

- health is different from useful readiness;
- dependencies and network boundaries must be explicit;
- failed work must be counted, not hidden;
- recovery needs fresh evidence;
- operators need a runbook and clear limits.

What it does not prove:

- thousands of servers;
- Kubernetes production administration;
- VMware or bare-metal fleet operations;
- kernel tuning or high-performance load balancing;
- Proton internal architecture or security controls;
- independent on-call ownership;
- work authorization or an offer.

Truthful current CV wording:

    Built a local hardware-aware reliability lab with C++, Python/FastAPI,
    Docker Compose, Prometheus and Grafana; implemented a controlled fault and
    recovery drill with automated tests and documented operational boundaries.

Do not write "Site Reliability Engineer at Proton" or "production Kubernetes" unless
those statements are actually true.


16. A SENSIBLE SIX-WEEK LEARNING PLAN
--------------------------------------

Week 1 - vocabulary and baseline
    Read Sections 1-8. Run the public lab. Draw the component and trust-boundary
    diagram. Explain liveness, readiness, SLI and SLO aloud.
    Done when: you can start, inspect, fault, recover and stop the local stack.

Week 2 - Linux and one approved host
    Ask the centre for a loaned/approved Linux VM, mini-PC or other host. Practise
    processes, ports, routes, systemd and logs. Do not scan the office network.
    Done when: the agent runs on an approved host and the boundary is recorded.

Week 3 - Docker and Kubernetes basics
    Review the image, use a non-root user, add probes and resource limits, and deploy
    only to a disposable or centre-approved environment.
    Done when: you can explain Pod, Deployment, Service, readiness and rollback.

Week 4 - CI and security
    Add tests, configuration validation, approved dependency/image scanning and an SBOM.
    Record any unavailable scanner as UNKNOWN instead of inventing a pass.
    Done when: a deliberately introduced safe issue is caught before deployment.

Week 5 - observability and incident response
    Define one SLO window. Add a useful alert or approved log search. Run three safe
    failures and write timelines, impact, cause and prevention.
    Done when: another person can find the failure from the evidence.

Week 6 - restore, handover and applications
    Test backup/restore. Present the five-minute demo. Score the skills matrix. Tailor
    a CV to a real vacancy and check experience, nationality, language and authorization.
    Done when: a second operator reproduces the runbook and every gap is listed.

The centre request is specific: one approved host or VM, isolated lab network, one
reviewer for one hour per week, and confirmation of available Kubernetes, GitLab,
VMware/Hyper-V, logs and security tools. IP4IT's public pages do not by themselves
guarantee a place, equipment, supervisor, paid placement or job conversion.


17. WHAT CAN BECOME PAID WORK
-----------------------------

Do not start by advertising yourself as a senior SRE. A more sensible first package,
after supervised practice, is:

    Authorized non-production reliability review

Possible deliverables:

- reproducible Docker deployment;
- architecture and trust-boundary diagram;
- CI tests and approved security checks;
- baseline dashboard and SLI/SLO worksheet;
- one safe failure drill;
- recovery runbook and handover note.

Before accepting payment, confirm the user's Swiss work authorization, tax/contracting
position, client scope and data handling. Never test or change a client system without
written permission. This is a possible service shape, not guaranteed income.


18. BEGINNER EXERCISES WITH ANSWERS
------------------------------------

Exercise 1
Question: A process is running, but users receive errors. Is it healthy?
Answer: It may be live but not ready. Check the user-relevant operation and its
dependencies; do not equate a running process with useful service.

Exercise 2
Question: What is the difference between a metric and an alert?
Answer: A metric is a measurement. An alert is a routed decision that a person or
system needs to act. A metric can exist without an alert; an alert should link to
evidence and a runbook.

Exercise 3
Question: One failed poll out of 23 occurs during a test. What is the availability?
Answer: 22 / 23 = 95.652% for that short window. State the numerator, denominator and
window; do not call it a production SLO result.

Exercise 4
Question: Why is a container not a VM?
Answer: A container isolates a process while sharing the host kernel. A VM runs a guest
operating system under a hypervisor and has a stronger machine boundary at higher cost.

Exercise 5
Question: What is readiness for?
Answer: It tells a routing system whether the instance should receive useful traffic.
It can fail while liveness remains healthy during a dependency failure.

Exercise 6
Question: What should happen when a secret is committed to Git?
Answer: Stop propagation, revoke/rotate the secret, preserve appropriate evidence,
remove it from future history through an approved process, and review access. Never
publish or repeat the secret.

Exercise 7
Question: What is the first safe action during an incident?
Answer: State the user impact and preserve evidence. Do not randomly restart every
component because that can erase the cause and create more impact.

Exercise 8
Question: Does a six-week project make someone a senior SRE?
Answer: No. It can produce early-career evidence: reproducible deployment, metrics,
controlled incidents, security habits and handover. Seniority requires sustained
production responsibility, judgment, incident history and scope.


19. FIRST SESSION CHECKLIST
---------------------------

Do this on the Mac before asking for centre access:

1. Open the repository.
2. Run `make setup` and `make up`.
3. Open the dashboard at http://localhost:8000.
4. Run `make demo`.
5. State the user impact when the device fault is injected.
6. Inspect `/healthz`, `/readyz`, `/api/status` and `/metrics`.
7. Explain the recovery evidence.
8. Run `./scripts/verify.sh`.
9. Record the result and remaining gap in the skills matrix.

Definition of done: you can explain every current component without saying that a
tool or skill is present merely because a guide names it.


20. SOURCES AND VALIDITY BOUNDARIES
------------------------------------

Primary role sources checked 19 September 2026:

- Proton SRE Infrastructure Systems:
  https://job-boards.eu.greenhouse.io/proton/jobs/4848439101?gh_src=6b341c62teu
- Proton SRE Application Edge:
  https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/proton/jobs/4612377101
- Proton careers:
  https://proton.me/careers
- CERN DevOps Engineer for Large Scale Compute:
  https://careers.cern/jobs/devops-engineer-for-large-scale-compute/
- CERN CMS DAQ software role:
  https://careers.cern/jobs/ep-cms-tdq-2026-153-grap/
- IP4IT:
  https://www.ip4it.ch/
- Geneva Business News IT:
  https://genevabusinessnews.ch/it/
- Google SRE book:
  https://sre.google/sre-book/table-of-contents/

Validity rules:

- Employer requirements are current evidence about a role, not proof that the learner
  has the skill.
- A public project proves code and documentation are accessible, not production access.
- A local Kubernetes cluster is not a production cluster.
- A role labelled Geneva does not itself prove work authorization.
- A training placement is not employment unless a real contract says so.
- Recheck role status, deadline, eligibility, permit/activity authorization and centre
  equipment immediately before acting.

END OF GUIDE
